Complete Genomics README File

November 2011



This document contains important information regarding the data
delivered for each complete human genome sequenced by Complete Genomics
Inc.

Detailed documentation on the specific files provided is in the
DataFileFormats.pdf document, available by email request to
support@completegenomics.com.

Customers who are familiar with previous Complete Genomics data sets
may wish to consult the ReleaseNotes.pdf file, also available by email
request.

For technical support contact us at support@completegenomics.com.



***** IMPORTANT *****

Complete Genomics retains customer data for a very limited period of
time, generally 30 days, unless alternative arrangements have been made
and confirmed in writing. Customers are STRONGLY advised to immediately
check the integrity of any data delivery from Complete Genomics and to
also immediately create and verify a backup copy of all data.  If
customers find an issue in any data delivery they should contact
support@completegenomics.com as soon as possible to avoid the chance
that data are deleted and unrecoverable.



GENERAL NOTES:

Many of the Complete Genomics data files (those ending in .bz2) are
provided compressed using the bzip2 program.  Bzip2 is a standard
command-line tool included in most recent Linux and Unix operating
system versions as well as MacOSX.  Graphical bzip2 implementations are
also available for many platforms. Customers should expect a .bz2 data
delivery from CGI to expand by a factor of 3-4 fold in size if fully
decompressed, and they may wish to maintain some or all of the files in
their compressed state.

All Complete Genomics data are provided in text files formatted for use
on Linux/Unix systems (and also MacOSX, which is Unix-compatible).
Working with these files on a Windows machine may require some format
conversion because of the differences in line breaks used in Windows
text files (CR-LF) as opposed to Unix and MacOSX text files (LF only). 
Whether conversion is needed will depend on the Windows software you are
using: some Windows applications read Unix format text files without
conversion while other packages do not.



DISCLAIMER

Disclaimer of Warranties. COMPLETE GENOMICS, INC. PROVIDES THESE DATA IN
GOOD FAITH TO THE RECIPIENT "AS IS." COMPLETE GENOMICS, INC. MAKES NO
REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, OR ANY OTHER STATUTORY WARRANTY. COMPLETE
GENOMICS, INC. ASSUMES NO LEGAL LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY
PURPOSE FOR WHICH THE DATA ARE USED.

